Seminar “Numerical Methods for Hyperbolic
PDEs” – Paper Review

General Data
Title of the reviewed paper: Limiters for Discontinuous Galerkin Schemes
Name of the author of the reviewed paper: Marten Lienen
Date: 25.06.16

Summary
The paper discusses two limiters for stabilizing discontinuous Galerkin methods,
namely, minmod and moment-limiter. The discontinuous Galerkin methods are
high-order methods for solving hyperbolic partial differential equations (PDEs),
but they suffer from oscillations when steep gradients or discontinuities occur
in the solution. A limiter restricts the gradient of the solution to a
mathematically and physically sensible value.  The minmod limiter is the most
basic form of limiter which works for first-order methods.  It restricts the
slope of the solution by bounding it with the forward and backward difference
quotients of the cell and its neighbors average values.  The generalized
moment-limiter works for higher-order approximations in a way similar to the
minmod limiter. The version of the limiter discussed in the paper is applicable
only for the modal approximation on equidistant grid. It limits the highest
coefficient of the approximation by the upwind and downwind first-order
approximations of the derivative.

Review
Categories

Abstract			Points: 3.5
Summarizes the contents of the paper aptly.

Formal Aspects		Points: 3.5
The pace of the paper was adequate to understand the concepts.

Structure			Points: 3
The paper is well structured. However, the introduction seems to be rather long
since the methods are going to be discussed in detailed in further sections.

Content, Level of Detail, and Completeness			 Points: 3
The level of detail when discussing moment-limiters and total variation seems to
be adequate and seems complete. The numerical result provided helps visualize
what the methods are doing.  Now for some criticism.

There is a need to explain in brief as to why limiting is necessary, for
example, the interpolation causes oscillations due to steep gradients. This
should be supported with a figure which is more refined than the one
presented. It should be clear as to how the oscillations change if the degree of
the approximating polynomial is increased or decreased.  The paper needs more
clarity while explaining the concepts, for example it is unclear as to how the
minmod limiter proceeds through the mesh. Does it go from left to right or right
to left or something else altogether. The last paragraph on page 2 suggests
something entirely different. It is also not clear as to whether the first-order
polynomial approximation c1x + c0 is on the i ireference interval or on the
actual interval.  The figure which discusses the numerical results has no labels
on the axes.  Although the figure is described in the text that follows, it
would be a good idea to include the labels so that it is easily understood.

Written Style and Readability			Points: 3.5
There was no problem in reading the paper.

References			Points: 4
The references relating to the paper provide for an advanced reading experience.

Conclusion			Points: 3
The conclusion seems to be written rather sloppily. It could be a good idea to
guide the reader towards further references and give a short summary of the
topics discussed.

Overall Evaluation			Points: 3.5
Overall the paper seems to discuss adequately what it states in the abstract
given the length restriction. Good job.

Best and Worst Aspect of the Paper

What is best in the paper?
The discussion on moment-limiters was up to the mark. It was good to look at
what exactly the limiters were doing with the help of a numerical example.

What is worst in the paper?
Almost no discussion to motivate the need for limiters.

Miscellaneous Comments
Reducing the introduction, motivating the need for limiters, and making the
discussion slightly more detailed would improve the quality of the paper a lot.
